Add user storage guide (#138)
2i2c-org/docs: user/storage.md

```python
import s3fs
fs = s3fs.S3FileSystem(key='<YOUR_CLIENT_KEY>', secret='<YOUR_CLIENT_SECRET')
```

Non-AWS S3 services (e.g. Wasabi Cloud) can be configured by passing an argument
such as `client_kwargs={'endpoint_url': 'https://s3.us-east-2.wasabisys.com'}`
to `S3FileSystem`.

For Google Cloud Storage, the best practice is to create a
[service account](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/service-accounts) with
appropriate permissions to read / write your private bucket.
You upload your service account key (a .json file) to your hub
home directory and then use it as follows:

```python
 import json
 import gcsfs
 with open('<your_token_file>.json') as token_file:
     token = json.load(token_file)
 gcs = gcsfs.GCSFileSystem(token=token)
```

You can then read / write private files with the ``gcs`` object.

### Scratch Bucket

Some 2i2c environments are configured with a "scratch bucket," which
allows you to temporarily store data. Credentials to write to the scratch
bucket are pre-loaded into your Pangeo Cloud environment.

:::{warning}
Any data in scratch buckets will be deleted once it is 7 days old.
Do not use scratch buckets to store data permanently.
:::

> The location of your scratch bucket is contained in the environment variable ``PANGEO_SCRATCH``.

Author: ```suggestion
The location of your scratch bucket is contained in the environment variable ``SCRATCH_BUCKET ``.
```

  for personal use
- Use cloud object storage to store larger datasets and to share data across your team
- Consider whether your project would benefit from other cloud-native data storage
  solutions such as a database, data warehouse, or data lake

:::{admonition} Attribution
The following material was adapted from the
[Pangeo Cloud User Guide](https://pangeo.io/cloud.html)
:::

## Your Home Directory

Your notebook server is a linux "virtual machine" with its own filesystem.
Your are not on a shared server; you are on your own private server.
Your username is ``jovyan``, and your home directory is ``/home/jovyan``.
This is the same for all users.

Your home directory is intended only for notebooks, analysis scripts, and small datasets (< 1 GB).
It is not an appropriate place to store large datasets.
No one else can see or access the files your home directory.

The easiest way to move files in and out of your home directory is via the JupyterLab web interface.
Drag a file into the file browser to upload, and right-click to download back out.
You can also open a terminal via the JupyterLab launcher and use this to ssh / scp / ftp to remote systems.

> However, you can’t ssh in!

Author: Is it true that you can't ssh / scp into your server? Or do we have a solution for that? If so, this would be a good place to mention it.

Reviewer: https://github.com/yuvipanda/jupyterhub-ssh adds SSH and SFTP (but not scp) support. Maybe we could make that an additional feature we can deploy. I know that @consideRatio has this going for @fperez's JMTE hub for a while - how has your experience been, @consideRatio?

Reviewer 2: I think we've had a few surprises learning about some limitations, but have been happy about what is supported.

- `rsync` over SSH -> SFTP recommended to use instead -> Some confusion about that we had to use another port than port 22 for that as we had to distinguish the JupyterHub SSH server from the JupyterHub SFTP server.
  https://github.com/yuvipanda/jupyterhub-ssh/issues/55
- Some challenges about servers being culled by `jupyterhub-idle-culler` when having an open SSH connection
  https://github.com/yuvipanda/jupyterhub-ssh/issues/67
- SSH Tunnels aren't supported, but perhaps an expectation held for someone installing `jupyterhub-ssh`
  https://github.com/yuvipanda/jupyterhub-ssh/issues/26

Author: Let's leave ssh out of this guide for now. We can always update it later.

I also think it's fine if we try to push people towards a more cloud-native approach to data.

| [Zarr](http://zarr.dev/) | Storage of large multidimensional arrays | zarr, numpy, dask.array, xarray |
| [Cloud Optimized Geotiff](https://www.cogeo.org/) | Geospatial raster data | rasterio, rio-xarray |

There are other more specialized cloud-optimized formats for specific scientific domains.

It is recommended to use cloud-native formats when working with big data in cloud object storage.

### Working with Object Storage

From a user perspective, the main challenge of working with object storage is the need
to use more specialized tools, rather than just simple files / filenames, to manage data.
Fortunately, excellent tools exist to make working with object storage easy and familiar.

For python users, the main tool is [filesystem spec](https://filesystem-spec.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
(fsspec), a set of packages which enable us to work with many different types of storage.
Separate fsspec packages exist for each type of object storage:

- **[s3fs](https://s3fs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)** - for working with AWS S3
  (Simple Storage Service) and compatible APIs. Most third-party object storage

>   services (e.g. [Wasabi](https://wasabi.com/) and [Open Storage Newtork](https://www.openstoragenetwork.org/))

Author: The link checker is erroneously flagging this as a broken link

```
(    user/storage: line  109) broken    https://www.openstoragenetwork.org/ - HTTPSConnectionPool(host='www.openstoragenetwork.org', port=443): Max retries exceeded with url: / (Caused by SSLError(SSLCertVerificationError(1, '[SSL: CERTIFICATE_VERIFY_FAILED] certificate verify failed: unable to get local issuer certificate (_ssl.c:1131)')))
```

Reviewer 3: I added an exception to openstoragenetwork, not sure why it wasn't working

>   services (e.g. [Wasabi](https://wasabi.com/) and [Open Storage Newtork](https://www.openstoragenetwork.org/))

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  services (e.g. [Wasabi](https://wasabi.com/) and [Open Storage Newtork](https://openstoragenetwork.org/))
```

Reviewer 3: this might fix the URL error

:::

## Your Home Directory

Your notebook server is a linux "virtual machine" with its own filesystem.
Your are not on a shared server; you are on your own private server.
Your username is ``jovyan``, and your home directory is ``/home/jovyan``.
This is the same for all users.

Your home directory is intended only for notebooks, analysis scripts, and small datasets (< 1 GB).
It is not an appropriate place to store large datasets.
No one else can see or access the files your home directory.

The easiest way to move files in and out of your home directory is via the JupyterLab web interface.
Drag a file into the file browser to upload, and right-click to download back out.
You can also open a terminal via the JupyterLab launcher and use this to ssh / scp / ftp to remote systems.
However, you can’t ssh in!

## The `shared` Directory

All users have a directory called `shared` in their home directory.
This is a *readonly* directory - anybody on the hub can *access* and *read from* the `shared` directory.
The hub administrator may choose to distribute shared materials via this directory.
The `shared` directory is not intended as a way for hub users to share data with each other.

> ## Using Git / GitHub

Author: I know that @yuvipanda will not approve of the security practices recommended in this section. I am happy to replace this with something else that is more secure. We just need to give a clear answer to the question _how should I push to a github remote from 2i2c hubs_?

Reviewer: @fperez has been dogfooding https://github.com/yuvipanda/github-app-user-auth for a few months now and is pretty happy with it. https://github.com/yuvipanda/github-app-user-auth/pull/8 also makes it work inline from within JupyterLab. 

I agree we should provide a clear answer to 'how do I push to github from a hub'. I can replace this section with something using https://github.com/yuvipanda/github-app-user-auth.

Reviewer 4: > I can replace this section with something using https://github.com/yuvipanda/github-app-user-auth.

@yuvipanda, do you want to do that as part of this PR or maybe as a follow-up as @choldgraf suggested below?

Reviewer: I've spent a bunch of time upgrading https://github.com/yuvipanda/gh-scoped-creds over the last couple days, I'll make that a PR to this PR.

Reviewer: yeah, it'll be one per hub. So user workflow would be:

1. run 'gh-scoped-creds' (or `%ghscopedcreds`) from within the notebook
2. Grant this particular JupyterHub access
3. Manage which repos this particular repo has push access to.

The initial setup for hub admins isn't too big either, so I think this just becomes a 'feature' you can ask for when we make a hub.

Reviewer: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/30430/164171109-22a18151-a031-46b5-8e6f-7d0bc28cddc6.mp4

I made a quick demo of how this will look like. We can improve this over time of course. It lets users provide per-hub, per-repo permissions in a time-scoped manner. The second part where you're choosing the repo need not be done every 8h.

Reviewer: I turned this into an announcement blog post https://blog.jupyter.org/securely-pushing-to-github-from-a-jupyterhub-3ee42dfdc54f that is a draft in the Jupyter blog. There's yet another big supply chain attack going on right now based on stolen GitHub credentials, so good timing for this :D

Reviewer: I'm working on setting this up on the pangeo GCP hub. https://github.com/pangeo-data/pangeo-docker-images/pull/305 is currently waiting for review.

Reviewer: I've test-deployed this onto https://staging.us-central1-b.gcp.pangeo.io - you can test it out by opening a notebook there, then:

```
%pip install gh-scoped-creds
import gh_scoped_creds
%ghscopedcreds
```

And following the prompts there. The `pip install` will go away once https://github.com/pangeo-data/pangeo-docker-images/pull/305 is merged.

https://github.com/2i2c-org/infrastructure/pull/1219 sets this config up and also adds docs on how to do it, so we can turn this on as a 'feature' for any new hub.

Reviewer: And here's my PR to this PR replacing the ssh-key section! https://github.com/rabernat/2i2c-docs/pull/1

Author: This is an amazing solution.

The recommended way to move code in and out of the hub is via git / GitHub.

> You should clone your project repo from the terminal and use git pull / git push to update and push changes.

Reviewer: There's an active attack involving stolen github credentials going on right now (https://github.blog/2022-04-15-security-alert-stolen-oauth-user-tokens/) :)

  and Azure BLOB Storage.

Each system has its own unique mechanisms for authentication and authorization;
consult the documentation links above for more details.

#### Reading Data

When reading data from cloud object storage, you have two general options:
- Download the data to the local filesystem; this is fine for small data, but not suitable
  large data or cloud-optimized datasets. Downloads can be managed with
  [Pooch](https://www.fatiando.org/pooch/latest/) or fsspec.
- Open the data with an application that understands how to stream data data
  over HTTP directly from object storage. This is suitable for large data and
  cloud-native formats.

As an example of the latter use case, here is how you would open the
[NASA  Multi-Scale Ultra High Resolution (MUR) Sea Surface Temperature (SST)](https://registry.opendata.aws/mur/)
dataset from the AWS Public Data program using Xarray:

```python
import xarray as xr
ds = xr.open_dataset("s3://mur-sst/zarr/", engine="zarr", storage_options={"anon": True})
```

#### Writing Data

Writing data (and reading private data) requires credentials for authentication.
2i2c does not provide credentials to individual users.

> Instead you 2i2c customers should manage their own cloud storage directly.

Author: Can we think of some more concrete suggestions to put here?

On S3-type storage, you will have a client key and client secret associated with you account.
The following code creates a writeable filesystem:

```python
import s3fs
fs = s3fs.S3FileSystem(key='<YOUR_CLIENT_KEY>', secret='<YOUR_CLIENT_SECRET')
```

Non-AWS S3 services (e.g. Wasabi Cloud) can be configured by passing an argument
such as `client_kwargs={'endpoint_url': 'https://s3.us-east-2.wasabisys.com'}`
to `S3FileSystem`.

For Google Cloud Storage, the best practice is to create a
[service account](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/service-accounts) with

> appropriate permissions to read / write your private bucket.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
appropriate permissions to read / write to your private bucket.
```

> You upload your service account key (a .json file) to your hub

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You upload your service account key (a `.json` file) to your hub
```

home directory and then use it as follows:

```python
 import json
 import gcsfs
 with open('<your_token_file>.json') as token_file:
     token = json.load(token_file)
 gcs = gcsfs.GCSFileSystem(token=token)
```

You can then read / write private files with the ``gcs`` object.

### Scratch Bucket

Some 2i2c environments are configured with a "scratch bucket," which

> allows you to temporarily store data. Credentials to write to the scratch

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
allows you to temporarily store data (for example, when you need to store intermediate files during data transformations).
Credentials to write to the scratch
```

> bucket are pre-loaded into your Pangeo Cloud environment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
bucket are pre-loaded into your Hub's user environment.
```

:::{warning}
Any data in scratch buckets will be deleted once it is 7 days old.
Do not use scratch buckets to store data permanently.
:::

> The location of your scratch bucket is contained in the environment variable ``PANGEO_SCRATCH``.

Reviewer 3: This is probably something other than `PANGEO_SCRATCH` - what is it?

Author: On our 2i2c-managed clusters, I believe it is still PANGEO_SCRATCH. But I'd be happy to see it renamed.

Reviewer: SCRATCH_BUCKET and PANGEO_SCRATCH are both set. I think we should recommend SCRATCH_BUCKET

> And an example, here is how you would write Xarray data to the scratch bucket

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, here is how you would write Xarray data to the scratch bucket
```

in Zarr format.

```python
import os
import xarray as xr

> PANGEO_SCRATCH = os.environ['PANGEO_SCRATCH']  # -> gs://pangeo-scratch/<username>

Reviewer 3: Should update these when we confirm the name of the environment variable
